And then let's go ahead and go on to some
of the popular things that we use inside
of Vue is we have computed properties.
And so this is one of my
favorite properties of Vue,
because what you're ultimately doing is
you're creating an ability to easily cache
reactive data that updates automatically
based on another piece of reactive data.
So this is particularly useful when it
comes to like animations, and like data
tracking and that kinda stuff because you
can do some really incredible things and
you don't have to worry about any of
the caching foot guns that you might
typically have to deal with.
And so in this case, for example, we have
this filtered restaurantList, right?
And once again, when people write
a method or a computed property,
they can define whatever they want, but
it's useful to actually be explicit
regarding what it's returning.
So all we need to do here, if we want,
is we can say we're expecting
an array of restaurants.
That's what we're expecting.
And, so that way if someone comes in,
and so let's say they decide to like, so
not this return statement,
this return statement will always
return an array of restaurants.
So let's go ahead and
botch this real quick, and return 123.
You'll see here, hey, wait a second,
this return, it's not right.
And so honestly, if you think about it,
what we're doing here with TypeScript is
kinda similar to what you would expect on
a word processing, word processor, where
if the dictionary catches a mistake, you
kinda want it to let you know about it.
You don't wanna wait till you've
printed it and shipped it off to your
professor for grading, be like,
whoops, I have the typo there, right?
This is one of the things that I
think TypeScript does really well.
And as you can see,
we're really just progressively sprinkling
on what is ultimately documentation
that is then converted into help tooltips
to make our coding lives easier.
So there you go.
We have a list of
restaurants from that list.
Now, okay, and what about this?
numberOfRestaurants.
Well, as you can see here,
numberOfRestaurants has actually been,
this is what in TypeScript they call
type inference, which is basically it's
inferring or assuming what the type
will be based on how the code's written.
So, in this case we're, using enough
vanilla JavaScript here to basically for
TypeScript to recognize that this
is probably gonna be a number, and
in this case it's totally right.
And so, you actually don't need to define
it any more because TypeScript does try
to do a lot of the heavy
lifting whenever possible.
But in case you do wanna be explicit,
once again, let's just do that for
practice sake.
We can just say, okay, we do expect
a number when that comes back.
But once again, some people do
consider this code clutter, again,
I leave that to you and
your team to decide.
But this is also just perfectly valid.
It's already typed, so that in the event
we try to do something funky like this,
actually this would work,
cuz I think it's gonna.
It'll just do some funky things
because now if you're always doing on
the inference part,
you'll see that you can still mess it up.
So when you have things that
are a little bit more contingent on what
the outcome is, I do actually prefer
to be just a little bit more explicit.
And so if we look, though, this signature
method is actually very similar
to data because basically
you have a function and
you're basically after the colon
what you're returning.
So once again, just to show,
we have our data here,
what we're returning after the parameters,
computed properties, same thing.
Okay, so now that we've seen that,
very similar, we're gonna look at methods.
And so this is where the functions that
we're gonna use when inside of our Vue
components.
And so inside of here,
let's start with what we already know,
which is what we expect to be returned.
And so typically though,
when we're using methods,
particularly when it's things like
click handlers and that kinda stuff,
you're typically not
actually returning anything.
That's not really your goal.
And in that case, you'll notice that
when I hover over addRestaurant,
it automatically declares
a return type of void.
Basically, nothing is being returned.
That's all that means.
And so you don't need to be explicit about
that unless, the only time I think this is
really useful is if you wanna make sure
that no one returns, if there's a strict
reason why you don't want people to return
things, you can certainly jot that down,
but otherwise void is very
much an optional thing.
However though, this is where once
again we can see something that
we often deal with when it comes to code,
which is how many of us
when we're working with JavaScript events,
we have a payload that we pass?
And it's like, well,
what kinda payload do I expect?
[LAUGH] This is not very helpful.
So you can always sit here and you can,
like, I'm sure many of us have done
this really, like, payload is going to be,
we've done this before.
[LAUGH] But
we have TypeScript to help us out, again,
we just needed to help
it out a little bit.
And so how do we define types for
our parameters?
Well, it's actually just the colon and
then the type that we expect.
So if we do that for both of these,
You'll see now that it actually
started doing some type checking so
that if we said payload.randomMessage,
you'll see that it's like, hey, whoa,
whoa, whoa, whoa, wait a second random
message does not exist on this payload.
This structure does not exist.
And so, again, another reason why just
this little bit of TypeScript can make
a huge difference in the long run,
especially when we all know that
whether it's yourself that's
maintaining the code base,
we often forget what we set out to intend.
And whereas with this, even if you
come back to this code a month later,
it will yell at you.
You won't dive into a rabbit hole and then
forget that at some point you set a type,
you intended it to be the shape and then
you decided to name it something else.
You don't have to worry
about that anymore.
Otherwise, let's see.
hideForm here.
There's nothing we're doing here besides
basically taking the showNowForm reactive
and turning it false.
So there's nothing to type there.
And then actually, this here is a typo.
Let me just fix this real quick.
There's nothing happening in here, okay.
So that's basically the core functionality
of what most people are using Options API
for, right?
You have your props, you have your data,
you have your methods, and
you have your computed.
So, now that I've kind of thrown that
information out, do people have any
questions about what I went through or
should I dive in any deeper?
Yeah, go for it.
>> I have a question about, so
you talked about how the word
processor is giving you these errors.
What kind of errors, these typo errors,
cause a buildtime error or
a runtime, if I didn't have
the editor telling me what was wrong?
>> Yeah, so let's test that out.
So just to reiterate, so the question
here is around what the error provides in
addition to just the red squiggly line.
So let's go ahead and again, let's do
this randomMessage here and save this.
And so you'll see now if I run npm run
build, oops, I'm in the wrong folder.
npm run build.
Yes, okay.
[LAUGH] Sometimes things don't work when
you want them to, but it did this time.
You'll see that it
actually stops the build.
Now to be clear, for
people new to TypeScript,
it doesn't do runtime
compilation if I'm not mistaken.
So in other words, once you ship this,
it's not gonna retain the types and
then check everything to make sure
everything's fine, this is really for
while you're developing.
That might change in the future.
That's my big caveat.
Maybe browsers will install a way for
it to be brought on and stuff.
But as of this moment, it's really
meant for during development and
then when you build it,
to help block these kinda things and
then basically you're
on your own after that.
[LAUGH] So
this is where things like checking for
your types is still important.
So type guards, so you know sometimes
in functions, you'll be like,
if this is an array, do this,
if this is a string, do this.
You'll still be doing
that with TypeScript,
it won't protect you from
having to write that code, but
what it will do is protect you
from common mistakes like this.
Where, like for example, restaurants,
I called it name at one point, but
at one point I called it title,
too, when I was building this.
And so I was like, wait.
That's right.
And so
that's if we rely on our
brains to remember things,
sometimes we just get
stumble a little bit.
And so it's a nice little reminder
that hey, it doesn't exist,
instead if I can just check real quick,
that's right I named it name and set.
>> Do we need to add types to
the argument inside the filter function?
>> The question here is regarding
this parameter right here.
So, the short answer is,
you don't have to do any of this.
And I think it's something
I do wanna underscore for
a lot of this workshop is that it's really
based on how your team works, right?
Because one of the things I think
made TypeScript difficult to adapt,
especially early on when people
are telling everyone to go all in is
that people felt like they
had to type everything.
And then all of a sudden things
were colliding or didn't,
people's knowledge didn't quite
match up to what they wanted to do.
So then people were
slapping Any on everything.
And so if you don't know,
Any is basically like a cheat code for
TypeScript to shut up.
That's basically what it means.
It's just like, stop yelling at me,
just ignore it.
And at that point, it's basically useless.
And so that's why to me, for this kind of
thing, if I'm looking at this computer
property, honestly I care most
about what's being returned.
In the event that I do think
the filter's gonna have problems and
maybe someone might not
understand the code.
That might be something where I can
come here and just say, okay, just for
documentation sake,
we're gonna make sure people know that the
parameter should be of type restaurant.
But because filter is
a built in array method,
this is nothing I customized, for example.
This is straight up ES6 syntax.
We do know that it basically will iterate
through whatever restaurantList is.
Aand so it's basically to choose
your own adventure kinda bit.
But in this particular case, I might omit
it in this case because I think the key
thing is what you're working with
after everything's been returned.
But again, no right or
wrong answer [INAUDIBLE].
>> But you could.
That's a cool part of it is you could-
>> Yeah, exactly, right?
>> Yeah.
>> And that's kind of what I wanna keep
re-emphasizing with this,
is that if you're like,
I feel a bit more comfortable.
In fact, we'll just leave it in here.
There you go.
You've annotated it,
people know what to expect.
That's all there is to it.
And then just to reinforce this, you'll
see that the restaurant without any type
definition does inherit,
TypeScript does some of that work for you.
It's not like you're just like,
yeah, I got some array thing.
It does know that restauranList
contains this kind of shape.
So it does basically assume that for
every item I'm iterating through,
it's probably inheriting the shape.
And guaranteed there may be reasons why
this may change which is why as mentioned,
if we want to,
we can always augment it as needed
>> So how did it know that restaurant was
a type restaurant without-
>> Yeah, so the reason is because,
remember we did that define component
to tell TypeSscript how to find things.
If we scroll back up to the data, this is
where the DataShape told it that when you
do this dot something,
restaurantList is of type restaurant.
And so this is kind of some of the dance
that has to happen with TypeScript and
Options API because of this keyword.
Cuz if you hover over this,
it's basically useless.
But actually, it's funny though,
you can see here that the
CreateComponentPublicInstance does have
this filteredRestaurantList
with a return on here.
And then can I actually navigate anymore?
But anyhow, so that's how it's
knowing through all that jumping.